One thing I have found during my first few shifts is that it was very easy to select patients with chief complaints with which I felt most comfortable.
I realized there was so much more to learn from the very sick patients, and even though my plans were incomplete and/or wrong I still came away with a better understanding of their disease.
I learned a lot this past week and I look forward to the next 3 weeks as I continue to figure out my role on the team and learn more about the CSICU.
My confidence is slowly building with each patient that I help admit and each page I answer.
Overall, this first week has has forced me to better manage my time and focus on high acuity issues while letting lower risk concerns take the back burner.
I know that there is a learning curve to navigating Cerner, but I thought I would feel more confident after a few days.
As M4 year begins, I hope greater confidence in knowledge base and skill level will let these principles drive our actions and diminish negative self-scrutiny.
That brings me to my constant struggle of clinical years in medical school... the balance of strengthening oneself as a future practitioner and as a person while prioritizing patient care.
After the few trip ups, I finally settled into the appropriate mindset, but I couldn’t quite find the most effective way of anticipating what the team will need in both supplies and information.
I want to echo the other views people have, saying that the third year built a solid foundation on which we are able to construct our abilities to care for the patients on our respective services, but although the foundation may be built, using the “supplies” (information) to build a solid structure of knowledge is not easy!
I am on my Ortho AI and not having much of Ortho during the first 3 years of med school definitely resulted in a huge learning curve, and I know its far from over and I am far away from feeling as comfortable as I did after third year.
The minute I get comfortable with a task load or rotation its already time to move on, out of the newly established comfort zone.
I would like to echo a little of what my classmates said about feeling relatively confident after finishing 3rd year, but there does seem to be a steep learning curve in the transition to acting intern.
It feels like I want to do all these things and handle my patients completely on my own, but sometimes when I try to do that…I still end up having to ask for help.
The biggest challenge I’ve found is getting the confidence to feel like I know what I’m actually doing for the majority of the day.
I have to say, by the end of the month on Internal Medicine I was feeling really confident with my ability to pick up patients on the fly and still manage several, handling orders/consults/notes in a timely manner and still finding time to research topics.
It was awesome to feel like things were really paying off from 3rd year and to start to believe I could really handle Intern year.
Hopefully by the midway point things will be much improved, and I'll have a better idea of what the junk I'm doing.
It was a super quick transition, but it has been a lot of fun assuming that new role as a teacher and as a healthcare provider that M3 students can look to for advice.
I've found that I read, study, and investigate current literature much more now in anticipation of questions that my M3s may ask... Because I want to know the answers and help them enjoy and get the most out of their OB clerkship experience.
This extra reading and understanding of the field has helped tremendously for me to grow and develop as a clinician, and I feel that I function much more independently in high-risk clinic and on the antepartum inpatient service as a result.
For the first time, I feel like I'm actually BEING a doctor.
I'm more confident answering questions from students, patients, or attendings, and I feel capable of making appropriate recommendations regarding patient management (if only AIs could enter orders...) All in all, the experience has been fantastic thus far!