During my last shift on Saturday I tried to be more aware of this and challenge myself to sign up for more "sick" patients, and while my plans were incomplete I found the attendings were very understanding and helpful.
Luckily the student on CSICU last month gave me a great sign out and everyone in the CSICU is friendly and excited to have a student on the team.
The OBGYN department is used to having AIs and there were clear ways for me to help my team.
What has helped is all of the support I have had from the rest of my team members.
It is nice to know that my third year resident is always there to bounce ideas off of and to sign off of on orders that I have placed.
Yet, I am appreciative for this time, as it is a safety net (as someone stated earlier), where I can make small mistakes without dire consequences to patients because the attending or NP are there for me to ask questions and give me feedback on my orders.
As many have said, reading these messages while starting a new rotation has been comforting and motivating.
Luckily the team has been amazingly patient and as I finished my last shift of the week I find myself much more confident during rounds.
On the positive side, it becomes easier with the help of the ancillary staff and the team members, both of which have gone out of their way to make sure I’m prepared for whatever comes!
Luckily the interns and residents are very helpful and accommodating, and don’t mind me asking 1,000 questions.
The teams are excellent, and supportive, and help with anything: making time for me in the morning and throughout the day to teach and include me, which is awesome, but critical care is so wildly different from what I'm comfortable managing that it has been super humbling and reintroduced that level of doubt my first AI had previously banished.
Fortunately, the team has been understanding and accommodating of those issues.
They have had me work directly with an intern who logs me into the computer system, etc., and then let me make decisions about management.
It definitely makes things challenging, but I will say, it's been a fun experience to learn a new system and the residents and faculty here at St. Francis are quite smart and friendly.